i put an entry in the MMTO menu for 'F/5 Wavefront Sensor'.  This link
will bring up all of the necessary windows.  the ds9, Wavefront
Zernikes, wim, and shwfs_f5.tcl are all fairly similar to the f/9
version of the software.  the Wavefront Zernikes window differs in its
lack of a 'set reference focus' button and the splitting of focus and
coma corrections into separate buttons.

the f/5 WFS Interface window is significantly different than its f/9
analog.  please note that the Science Camera is dead which is why the
buttons that affect it are greyed out.  the main window is grouped
into 5 areas:

stage motion - buttons to stow the WFS, move it on axis, or move it to
some specified position.

camera selection - select between WFS and science cameras and select
whether WFS points to sky or reference source. i've taken recent
reference images and they have not changed measurably from previous
ones so you shouldn't need to mess with that.

science camera config - not used since science camera is dead

camera cooling - toggle and monitor the cooling of the WFS camera

image acquisition - set up and take exposures as in the f/9 interface

less frequently used windows are brought up from the Control menu on
the main windows menubar.  the menu entries are:

Power on/off - brings up the Power window.  the top six buttons toggle
power switches within the WFS.  the bottom 2 communicate with the
switches in the 2nd floor instrument room to toggle power to the WFS
and WFS drives.  be very careful not to inadvertently turn them off!
next week i will add pop-ups to them so that a single click won't kill
the WFS power.

Run PixelLink - brings up the PixelLink Interface.  the PixelLink
camera is pretty fussy about its configuration so you'll likely want
to leave the defaults alone.  you may want to change exposure time,
but shouldn't need to for most WFS stars.  occasionally the first
image taken after changing exposure time is corrupted, but subsequent
frames should be fine.

Configure WFS - brings up the f/5 WFS Configuration window.  you'll
need to use this at the beginning of the night to home the WFS and to
set the WFS to its default configuration.

WFS Computer - brings up a VNC viewer to the console of the WFS
computer.  the password is 'wave4us'.  the hostname of the computer is
f5wave and its IP number is 192.168.1.150 (hacksaw, hoseclamp,
alewife, and SAO computers can see it, others may not).

if something screws up or you want to check to make sure everything's
where it's supposed to be, you can login to packrat and run
/data/mmti/bin/wavedisplay to bring up the full engineering GUI for
the f/5 WFS.


              Start-up Procedure after Partial Shutdown

- bring up the f/5 wavefront sensor from the MMTO menu

- if the WFS computer can't be reached, the f/5 WFS Interface window
  will report that it failed to connect.  this will be the case after
  a full shutdown, but hopefully not after a partial shutdown.

- if no errors are reported, bring up the Power window to make sure
  everything is on.  turn Servo Power on if it's off.  close the Power
  window once everything is turned on.

- turn on the cooling for the WFS camera.  the temperature should
  start to update within 5-10 seconds or so.

- bring up the WFS Configuration window and click 'Home WFS' to home
  and initialize the system.  may not be strictly necessary after a
  partial shutdown, but it doesn't hurt to do it.

- after the homing is complete, click on the appropriate button to set
  to either the hecto or megacam default configuration.  once that's
  done, the WFS Configuration window can be closed.

- bring up the PixelLink window, click 'Configure PixelLink', and take
  an exposure to test communication to the camera.  likewise take a
  test exposure with the WFS camera to test it out.  the PixelLink
  window can be left open for use later or closed and brought back up
  as needed.


                Start-up Procedure after Full Shutdown

- bring up the f/5 wavefront sensor from the MMTO menu

- there will be an error message about failing to connect to the WFS
  computer.  that is fine.  bring up the Power window and click the
  button for WFS Computer Power.  wait for about 10 minutes and then
  click the button for WFS Drive Power.  it will take a few more
  minutes for the WFS computer to boot.  you can run 'ping f5wave' in
  a window to monitor when it comes alive.

- when the WFS computer comes back on-line, bring up WFS Computer from
  the Control menu and enter the password of 'wave4us'.  when the
  windows console comes up, there will likely be a couple of dialogs
  up complaining about new USB hardware and enabling automatic
  updates.  cancel out of all of those.

- once boot-up popups are canceled out of, double-click on the Cygwin
  icon, run the command 'cd src/waveserv' in the window that opens,
  and then run the command 'wish waveserv.tcl'.  a small window should
  pop up that says 'waveserv' and has an exit button.

- after starting waveserv, you will need to wait about 10 minutes or
  so before bringing up the wavecamr server.  after the wait,
  double-click on the Cygwin icon once again, do 'cd src/waveserv',
  and then do 'wish wavecamr.tcl'.  if you get an error, click ok,
  wait a few minutes, and then try again.  if it doesn't come up after
  several tries, you may need to shutdown, power cycle, and
  start-over.

- once the waveserv and wavecamr servers are running happily on the
  WFS computer, you can close the VNC window.  then go to the Power
  window and power on the WFS subsystems in this order: SBIG, Puntino,
  Encoder, and then Servo.  then turn on WFS Camera cooling and follow
  the rest of the start-up procedure for a partial shutdown.


                         Observing Procedure

- the f/5 WFS is more sensitive than the f/9 one so you shouldn't need
  to go any brighter than 9th mag for a WFS star unless the seeing or
  conditions are quite bad.  even a 9th mag star in good seeing can
  saturate spots in 5 sec.

- you can safely move the WFS stage around while the telescope is
  moving and it is recommended to do this to save time.  remember to
  CLEAR ANY MOUNT OFFSETS!

- when you're on axis and on the star, run the PixelLink to check the
  star's position.  the center of rotation is at (650,688) in the
  image.  if the star is not there, go to the Observe menu and click
  'Init Pointing'.  move the red circle to center it on the star and
  then click OK.  take another PixelLink image to check the move, if
  desired.  if all's well, go ahead and take the WFS frames.
  analyzing the data is very similar to the f/9 setup.  it is
  recommended to do an iteration or two of correcting focus and coma
  before doing an iteration or two of correcting the primary.  if the
  corrections don't converge well, try longer exposure times or
  averaging more images.  if thermal is running well, the primary
  corrections should be fairly small so you shouldn't have to clear
  forces before doing WFS.  i have not had to while i've been up
  here.

- when you're done, simply stow the WFS stage.


                      Partial Shutdown Procedure
             (if there is no chance at all of lightning)

- make sure the WFS stage is stowed.

- turn off the WFS camera cooling.  it takes about 15 minutes or so
  for it to warm back up to ambient.

- bring up the Power window and turn off the Servo power.

- leave everything else powered up and exit the WFS interface.  you
  don't need to keep the interface open for the camera to warm itself
  back up.


                       Full Shutdown Procedure

- make sure the WFS stage is stowed.

- turn off the WFS camera cooling.  try to give this as much time as
  you can to avoid thermally stressing the CCD.  at least 15 minutes
  is preferable, but if you can give it even a few minutes that helps
  a lot.

- after giving the WFS camera as much time as possible to warm up,
  bring up the Power window and turn the subsystems off in this order:
  Servo, Encoder, Puntino, and SBIG.

- after the WFS subsystems are powered down, bring up the WFS computer
  VNC session and click the Exit button for the waveserv and wavecamr
  servers.  i think you want to Exit wavecamr first.

- close the Cygwin windows, click Start, and select 'Turn Off
  Computer'.  Then click 'Turn Off'.  the VNC window will disappear
  immediately, but it will take 10-20 sec for the computer to be
  safely shutdown and powered off.

- once the WFS computer is safely powered off, go to the Power window
  and turn off WFS Drive Power and WFS Computer Power.
